Hey guys, welcome back. Last lecture, we introduced you to the
concept of a shoutout or its similar brother, shout for shout, that's
the reciprocal version of it. What's a shoutout?
Basically when someone reposts something from your account
and then gives you credit, thereby pushing some of their
traffic towards you.
Typically, we see these in a one for one exchange. So, this lecture, we're going to talk about how to follow the best practices of doing shoutouts
so that they work for you.
It's pretty easy to get burned on this,
especially if you don't know what you're doing.
I see this a lot.
People will post something and screw up the post or they're just out of sync with the person they're supposed to be working with,
or they just don't understand how the system
of trading works, so they're just not successful.
Now, later on we'll talk about how to get them, how to
reach out and find people to do it,
but this lecture we're just going to focus on the actual
posting of it and how to make that go smoothly.
So I'm going to go over five different tips I think will help. Now, the first best practice is that you need to understand that shout for shouts
are a game of reciprocity.
Okay? I scratch you back, you scratch my back.
But sometimes the relationship is asymmetrical.
OK.
The value of a shout is only as good as
how many followers you have.
So does that mean that you can only work with people
who have the exact same number of followers as you?
Well, no, actually. The way you can do this
is you can modulate your offer.
So let's say you have 50k followers and they have 100k followers. Typically, what will happen is they might ask you for a 2:1 share,
meaning you do two posts and they do one.
That only makes sense considering that
they have 100k, which is double yours.
So keep that in mind when you reach out.
If you reach out to a larger account,
well, don't be surprised if they ask for some asymmetrical
sharing agreement. And now, remember, there's
other ways of modulating this.
When we covered types of shoutouts,
remember we talked about pros and cons, and some of
those types are more valuable than others, so it could
be the case that if you're working with a really big account
and they don't want you to do 10 for their one,
you could trade by doing, say, a timed post
on your account and a caption post on theirs.
Whatever it is, sometimes it's easier to get better
value this way because you know what the relative
value of the different types are and sometimes people
don't know that or they'll just kind of let it slide.
So get creative, but you've got to understand that
no one's going to give you a break when it comes to this.
They want to get the same amount of value
out of you that you want to get out of them.
The second tip I'll give you is that when you do shoutouts,
you will notice some people screw this up,
you don't tag only in the photo.
You tag in the caption.
People don't generally look at the tags on the photo.
You have to click the photo and then see the tags pop up.
It's just very uncommon that someone is actually digging in the photo to find that stuff. Typically, we use tags in the photo to get people's attention
by tagging them.
But it doesn't really drive a lot of traffic to them, so that's why we put them in the caption. Typically, you will also change your caption so that
you have a call to action pointing towards your account,
you have to give them some context, you don't just randomly
tag them. Also, keep in mind, if you're doing long form
captions, well then you need to put
their reference or their tag at the top.
Right?
If you have to hit "See more" to scroll to the bottom, it doesn't make sense that you put their tag at the very end, not as many people
see that, they would be kind of annoyed if you did that.
Third tip is that you just need to understand the general
process for how this works. If you want to do a shoutout,
you're probably going to negotiate through direct
message or through some type of chat system.
It's a very standard conversation.
You establish that you both want to do it,
you have similar content, similar audiences,
then you set up the terms. The terms will be
when do you post and how often do you post,
and who should go first?
You also decide on things like how long
are they going to be up, when to delete them,
and who writes the caption. If you forget to cover one of these,
well, you'll have a bad time. For instance, you both do a timed
share for share, okay? What happens if you post it and you
leave it up for a week and they leave theirs up for 2 hours?
You're just not going to get the same amount of attention
and traffic from it, so you need to make sure that you have
an agreement. If you don't have an agreement on when to
take it down, sometimes they'll cheat and just drop it down.
The other thing is that captions are really
important, the call to action next to the tag
is almost as important as the tag itself.
So you need to decide, are you going to write the caption
for their post and then they edit it and change it
for their voice, or are they going to write it and you approve it? Either way, it's something you need to decide upfront, it really just depends
on whether you think you can do a better job of speaking
to your audience, and therefore drive more traffic to them,
or you would rather have the other person have a shot at it. Typically, in asymmetrical shares, you have less leverage on this,
so if you're doing, say, like a 2:1 share, you might
not be able to get them to have a caption that
you specifically wrote, they'll probably
want to write something themselves.
Number four tip is that don't be surprised if you're
having trouble finding people to work with for shoutouts.
You have to build a relationship with accounts. Now,
another one of the reasons why we made that list of direct,
indirect, and adjacent accounts is that we want to track them.
We want to make sure we're keeping up with them and
marking the people that we think we can potentially
work with in the future.
Then, what you want to do is you just want to interact with them, you want to comment on their posts, like their posts, follow them,
and even sometimes give them
unsolicited shoutouts in advance.
So sometimes you just take something from them,
something that obviously fits your brand really well, you know
your audience would like it anyway,
and then you tag them, and you can use that
as leverage to get their attention. Sometimes, they
immediately repay you, but sometimes it just means that you
can then direct message them and they'll actually respond.
So don't be surprised if your cold
outreach doesn't work immediately.
Sometimes you have to warm up to them,
especially with large accounts. Large accounts,
they get a lot of messages, so it's easy to get drowned out.
And the last tip I'll give you is when you're doing a shoutout,
make sure that you pick one of their posts that is
both popular and also on brand visually and tonally.
So, one, you obviously want to make sure it's popular.
You don't want to take their worst post and then post it, because
your audience isn't going to like that, and it's also
not going to convert so many people for them.
Right?
But also, you want to make sure you're not taking one
of their ugliest posts or one of the ones that has a tone
that just doesn't make sense.
Maybe they have a sarcastic, kind of crude tone,
and yours is more sophisticated or intelligent,
I don't know if that exists on Instagram, but that would be
a mismatch. Generally, the risk of doing that incorrectly
means you might lose followers. Sometimes,
the bottom falls out and you lose them faster than you gain them.
So how exactly do you find a matching photo?
Well, the way I generally like to do it is, one, I like to go to
Iconosquare and then add them as a competitor, it takes
about 15 minutes.
But if you scroll down to the bottom of the page, it will show you
their most popular posts by views, likes, and comments.
You just click it and then look at all the
other ones that sort by the most popular,
and then you can find one that matches your brand.
Alternatively, if you're not paying the $7 a month
or whatever it is for Iconosquare, you can use
a website called Popsters,
and honestly, if they change the way they work by the
time you see this, I'm sorry, but right now they
have a free version, you could type that in, and
they'll calculate it and show you a list of their posts.
All right, guys, that's pretty much it.
Keep these in mind as you go forward.
Shout for shouts,
they work on a reciprocity basis, sometimes they're
asymmetrical and you have to adjust for that.
Make sure you tag them in the caption.
Make sure you decide on all of the terms before you go
ahead and post. Understand that you can't go in cold
with a lot of big accounts, sometimes you have to give them
some love before they even recognize you. And make sure
what you're posting looks the same caliber of quality
as something you'd post, visually and tonally, and
obviously make sure it's one of their more popular posts.
All right, guys, with that being said, see you next lecture.